'\" t
.TH springbatch_selinux 8 "Springbatch SELinux policy man page"
.LO 8

.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH Name
springbatch_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for Java Spring Batch services

.SH Description
.PP
Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) secures the Java Springbatch processes via flexible
mandatory access control (MAC).
.PP
The Springbatch job/service processes execute with the \fIspringbatch_t\fR SELinux
type (domain).
.PP
You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fR
command with the \fB\-Z\fR qualifier.
.PP
For example:
.RS 2
\fBps \-eZ | grep springbatch_t\fR
.RE

.SH Entrypoints
.PP
The springbatch_t SELinux type/domain can be entered via the \fIspringbatch_exec_t\fR file type.
.br 
The default entrypoint paths for the springbatch_t domain are the following:
/opt/springbatch/bin/springbatch_service and /opt/springbatch/service/*
.RE

.SH Process types
.PP
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system.
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files/directories and all other types
of resources on the system (network ports, other processes...). 
.PP
The springbatch_t process type (domain) is defined for Springbatch job/service processes.
.PP
Note: \fBsemanage permissive \-a springbatch_t\fR
.RS 2
Can be used to make the process type springbatch_t permissive.
.br
Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.
.RE

.SH Booleans
.PP
The SELinux policy rules for the springbatch_t domain can be tuned using predefined booleans to allow/disallow
the Springbatch job different actions.
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_http\fR (true)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to HTTP ports (labeled as http_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_syslog_netsend\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) and send (UDP) to syslog ports (labeled as syslogd_port_t or syslog_tls_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_ldap\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to LDAP ports (labeled as ldap_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_smtp\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to SMTP ports (labeled as smtp_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_oracle\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to Oracle ports (labeled as oracle_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_mysql\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to MySQL/MariaDB ports (labeled as mysqlde_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_pgsql\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to PostgreSQL ports (labeled as postgresql_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_redis\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to Redis ports (labeled as redis_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_couchdb\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to CouchDB ports (labeled as couch_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_connectto_mongodb\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to connect (TCP) to MongoDB ports (labeled as mongod_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_dynamic_libs\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to create and use (execute/map) dynamic libraries.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springbatch_purge_logs\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springbatch job to delete its log files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_webadm_read_springbatch_files\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow users processes running in the \fIwebadm_t\fR SELinux domain to read Springbatch job files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_sysadm_write_springbatch_files\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow users processes running in the \fIsysadm_t\fR SELinux domain to modify/alter Springbatch job files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_sysadm_manage_springbatch_auth_files\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow users processes running in the \fIsysadm_t\fR SELinux domain to modify/alter Springbatch job authentication/sensitive files.
.RE
.PP
.RE

.SH File Contexts
.PP
\fBspringbatch_conf_t\fR
.RS 4
Files containing (not highly sensitive) configuration properties and information.
(Cannot be altered by the Springbatch job)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_auth_t\fR
.RS 4
Files containing sensitive/confidential configuration properties and authentication information.
(Cannot be altered by the Springbatch job)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_log_t\fR
.RS 4
Job log files, may contain sensitive information.
(Append-only access by the Springbatch job, by default)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_var_t\fR
.RS 4
Job (various) data files, persistent across job restart and system reboot.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_run_t\fR
.RS 4
Job (various) data transient/volative files, not persistent across job restart and system reboot.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_tmp_t\fR
.RS 4
Job temporary files.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_bin_t\fR
.RS 4
Job binary/executables files.
(Cannot be altered by the Springbatch job)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_lib_t\fR
.RS 4
Job libraries files, such as JAR files or .SO files in case os native call/interface.
(Cannot be altered by the Springbatch job)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_dynlib_t\fR
.RS 4
Job dynamic libraries files. May be deployed/created/rewritten by the Springbatch job itself.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_unit_file_t\fR
.RS 4
systemd unit files to control/manage the Springbatch job services and targets.
(Cannot be altered by the Springbatch job)
.RE

.SH Interfaces
.PP
The Springbatch SELinux policy is shipped with a set of "interfaces" to easily extend the policy.
.br
To use a given interface a small SELinux policy module source code must be created, compiled and finally loaded.
.SS "Deployment interfaces"
.PP
\fBspringbatch_deployer(\fRdeployer\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its argument to deploy Springbatch job files and to manage (stop/start/enable/disable) Springbatch systemd units.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_systemd_deployer(\fRdeployer\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its first argument to deploy Springbatch unit_name systemd unit files.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_systemd_unit_instance_deployer(\fRdeployer\fB, \fRunit_name\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its first argument to deploy Springbatch named unit_name systemd unit files passed as its second argument.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_auth_deployer(\fRdeployer\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its argument to deploy Springbatch sensitive configuration files.
.RE
.PP
.RS 2
\fBExample:\fR SELinux source code to allow Ansible (ansible_t) to deploy the Springbatch job
.RS 2
policy_module(springbatch_ansible_deployment, 1.0.0)
.br
springbatch_deployer(ansible)
.br
springbatch_auth_deployer(ansible)
.RE
.PP
.SS "Connection interfaces"
.PP
\fBspringbatch_allow_connectto(\fRservice_name\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows job running in the springbatch_t domain to connect to the SELinux (tcp) port \fIservice_name\fR_port_t passed as its argument.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringbatch_allow_consumed_service(\fRservice_name\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows job running in the springbatch_t domain to consume (UDP/TCP) the network services linked to SELinux port \fIservice_name\fR_port_t passed as its argument.
.RE

.SH Author
.PP
The Springbatch SELinux policy was initially authored by Hubert Quarantel-Colombani and is now published and maintained by LHQG <https://lhqg.fr/>
.RE

.SH "See Also"
.PP
\fBselinux\fR(8),
\fBsemanage\fR(8),
\fBrestorecon\fR(8),
\fBsepolicy\fR(8),
\fBsetsebool\fR(8)
.PP
LHQG GitHub repository <https://github.com/lhqg/selinux_springbatch/>